Welcome to the Data Science Hangout, everyone.
The first one since PositConf.
For all those that I met, it was great meeting you.
This is your first Data Science Hangout.
Welcome.
If this is your 100th or more, welcome.
We're happy to have you.
I'm filling in for Rachel Dempsey today.
She's ordinarily the host.
She's taking a well-deserved vacation.
So I'll do my best.
This is a casual, open environment for data scientists, data science leaders, interns,
students, what have you.
So we want it to be a free-flowing conversation, super welcoming.
So use your best judgment.
Be nice.
There's lots of different ways to participate.
You can chat in.
Hannah will share a Slido link where you can ask anonymous questions.
You can raise your hand.
You can turn your video on.
You can just sort of speak.
So it's super casual, whatever works for you.
I'm really happy to introduce our leader today, Jean-Vincent from Nestlé.
So I'll hand it over to him to do an intro, and we'll get started.
Okay, great.
Thank you very much for the nice intro.
And yeah, just to build on what you just said.
So I've been assisting to, I would say, some of these Hangouts.
Honestly, it's also sometimes collapsing, but it's at the end of the day here because
I'm in Europe.
So that's why sometimes they're a bit difficult to attend.
But I just want to reiterate that it's really a pleasure for us to be here.
And to Ann-Honoré, I have been asked to share my experience with you.
And I'm sharing, then, this experience as a person.
So just to make sure that everyone is also aligned on this, I'm not here representing
Nestlé as a Nestlé employee, I would say, but I'm happy to share with my experience
throughout my different companies also, and more recently, Nestlé, of course.
So speaking of which, I actually medicated as a physicist.
So I did physics in the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne.
And then after that, I did a PhD in neuroscience, where I was exploring the connection between
neurons doing more biophysics, and that would be through electrophysiology.
That's where I started to do some data analytics, or rather heavily involved in both analyzing
the signal to get some relevant features out of that, and then doing statistics to get
what would be the message or the learnings to get from that.
Basically, I was exploring how neurons were connecting and disconnecting over a 12-hour
period with actual slices of tissue.
Then after that, I moved to the industry, and I started to work as a process engineer
in Valtronic Technology, which is a company in Switzerland, with also a production site
in Solon in the US, so in Ohio.
I worked there as a process engineer in macroelectronics to do assembly for medical devices.
We were working on outside medical device, but also some implants, and that was a bit
more challenging, and that's where we have this neuroscience also that was interesting
for the company with neural simulators.
I've been there successively process engineer, then head of engineering and development,
and then the head of technology, taking care of the portfolio of technology and interaction
with customers.
Valtronic is a service company, so we didn't have any direct product, but we would develop
and industrialize products for customers.
Then after seven years in that company, I moved to Nestle as a data scientist.
Then there, I worked in different projects in the system technology center, so it's located
in Orb, Switzerland, where this is the center where we develop all the so-called systems.
System is the conjunction of the machine, dispensing machine, the packaging, which is
functional to some extent, more or less, but sometimes more than less, and the product.
One of the most known is Nespresso.
I would say the Nespresso system with the virtual line that you have in the US, or we
also have Dolce Gusto and different things like this that are around us.
I worked there really in different projects as a data scientist with design of experiments,
with statistical process control, with also some automating data analysis that were coming
from the labs, where the lab would generate a lot of different files, and we would need
to have some apps that would then, and that wouldn't be shiny apps, that would be using
and analyzing the data to extract the knowledge of it, and then drive the development.
Recently, so this summer, I moved to Nestlé Research, so moving a bit away from the production,
I would say, closer to more upstream process in the research and development, and now I'm
still working in programming and having this more applied in the food science, and so it's
broader than just the systems, it's really touching all the Nestlé categories there.
Aside, or say part of my activities also in Nestlé, and that could be interesting, and
that's why I'm sharing it also with you, because there might be some questions also around that.
I very early in Nestlé joined the network, so we have knowledge networks in Nestlé,
in R&D, where we actually connect different people from different sites, just to give
you an idea, I don't know exactly how many sites, but I think we have sites all over
the globe, and then sometimes the scientists are there, one of their kind, or maybe two
of them, and it's good to connect so that we can share on experience, we can share on
tricks, we can share on knowledge, and also get some coaching and mentoring also from
each other.
So, this data analytics network, I've joined when I joined Nestlé almost at the same time,
and more recently I've been in the leadership team, and for the past few years I've been
leading that network, so really coordinating the different activities for this network
in Nestlé.
So, that's a bit about my history in the short term.
I haven't looked at the questions, I don't know if you could spot some of the questions
already, if there is any question on this.
Questions typically come in maybe starting now, so if you have any questions, please
type into the chat, or you can use the slide, or you can just hop on with video and audio.
I see Mike actually has a question.
Mike, nice to see you.
Yeah.
Hi there.
Hi Jean-Baptiste.
So, what is the size of the data science group at Nestlé?
And I'm sorry if I missed this.
Well, I didn't mention, so that's a good question.
I would say that it depends how you define data science.
Typically the networks, I will start from my close community, or my closer to me, the
network, I mean, we are typically around 50.
That would be for R&D, 50, 60, but not everyone is sort of completely exhaustive.
And they more recently did data science.
So, and these people, I would say, would be more really in the development and kind of
hard coders, I would say, or some people either using R or Python or both.
But then when you extend also to a lot of analysts that would then be also using so
more less coding or no code solutions, it goes bigger.
And when you look at also beyond R&D, I would say a number that came recently up is
something like around 1,000.
1,000 knowing that Nestlé is 300,000 people around the world, including all the
factories, of course.
And then you can have a very diverse approaches because we have people in the
business who would be more looking at, you know, dashboards.
I would say it's really around the data visualization, which is already teaching a
lot.
I mean, basically having just showing what is there.
I mean, how many times I've got people coming to me with an Excel sheet and say,
oh, we see this and this and this on the numbers.
And I say, yeah, well, try plotting your data.
And that's one of the things we say also in the course we give is really plot the
data.
That's the first thing to do.
So this is already very valuable and here typically using Power BI type of
solutions.
So we have many people in the business doing this.
There is also a lot of activity in the supply chain that I've heard of for all the
demand planning and this kind of thing.
So there have been things like this and in various fields of Nestlé.
So that's why when you extend it beyond R&D it goes there.
But it might be in also approaches and techniques that I'm less familiar with as I'm
much more into, say, technically generated data or machine or instruments
generated data.
Yeah.
If I may, can I have a follow up question then, Rob?
So when you were talking about the communities to try to bring together, you know,
data scientists or practitioners then.
So is that primarily your 50 or is that actually reaching out broader?
No, it's primarily the 50, I would say, because it's really much more around doing the
same activity.
Well, we've seen here in the Hangouts.
So we have some commonalities across what the different activities of the data
scientists.
But we also have might be quite different.
And I think that when you are treating some, I don't know, data for supply chain or
human resource data or data coming from mass spectrometer, it's not exactly the same.
So you have somehow the same thing is behind.
But also where we are more than just machine or calculating machines is people.
So we are having some knowledge about the domain.
And typically when I was, you know, I know now I think a lot about coffee also because
I worked for coffee projects.
And when I was there, you know, releasing the connecting the dots sometimes because
you're like people, they come with a request and they have a certain perspective from
their project.
And then also as a data scientist, you can say, well, look, I understand what you
would like to do.
But I can understand because I also know what is the context and what is the science
behind to some extent.
I'm not pretending I'm at the level, but to some extent, we know this.
And then we can we can have.
So that's why this community, I would say more in R&D, which is already pretty
challenging to manage because we see that we have different different also approaches.
You have to know that in Nestle R&D, we have so food science as the most obvious or
systems, then the product technology centers who develop the product that you find on
the shelves.
We also have then Purina, which is part of Nestle that you may well know.
And we also have health science.
And typically in the Institute of Health Science, that would be more things around,
you know, more nutrients around food intake.
But it's also regarding different type of product that would be delivered in the
hospitals, for instance, and that would then require different approaches and
clinical studies and this kind of thing.
So it's already pretty diverse.
And that would have been that is still, I would say, a challenge to have sessions
where everyone is interested in the topic.
So sufficiently, I would say sufficiently, you said it in English, sharp and
technically, but sufficiently broad so that we are not lost by the science behind if
it's not in our more familiar domain.
So.
So, yeah.
Nestle is a massive company, right?
Like, I'm assuming most people are familiar with it.
But Jean-Vincent, do you want to sort of maybe give folks a lay of the land of
Nestle as an entity?
Well, so as I've just said, to give a number, it's around 300,000 people around
the world.
It's I don't know how many hundreds or thousands of factories.
And then when it has this particularity, as I said, that it's it's kind of so
it's a Swiss based.
The Swiss originally from the headquarters are in Verve in Switzerland by Lake
Geneva, which is called Lake Le Mans.
It's a whole debate on the region.
And it's Swiss spirit in the sense that it is centralized, even though there is a
center in Verve.
But there is always a will to have products that are adapted to the local market.
So there is some sort of autonomy that is also given to the different markets.
So what we call a market is not necessarily a country.
But if it's a big country, it's just a country, but can be also a group of some
of some countries.
And basically, well, it's I think the first food and beverage company and our
main products that are around coffee.
We are we are producing a lot of Nescafe typically is one of the one brand.
You may also have Nespresso, as I mentioned, so Purina in the in the pet food.
There is also all the chocolate, chocolate.
I don't know if how there is how it's spread.
But there are also very there are products that are typical to certain regions.
Typically, I think Milo is South American.
So then there are many, sometimes many brands that I'm I'm even still discovering
that existed.
So it's pretty good.
So but really supplying food beverage around the world, I would say.
Yeah. And your previous company, Valtronic, is that is that right now?
How different is Nestle from from that company?
Well, you have different aspects.
So first, Valtronic is 500 people around the world.
So it's smaller than one center in Nestle.
Now in Nestle Research, we are more than 700 located in Lausanne, around the
Lausanne area.
And so in that sense, it is it was much smaller.
So, of course, you can have also responsibility at the global scale, much
quicker, I would say, in a career there.
But still, it was international in the sense that Valtronic has to the headquarters
in Switzerland.
There is what there was at the time, a engineering bureau in Romania.
And then there was a factory in Morocco, still a factory in Morocco and a factory
in the US in Solon, Ohio.
And so there is still also this diversity because in the sense that so the
Moroccan company plant was really to to produce with a less expensive workforce.
So it was more decentralizing.
But the US company was a lot more autonomous and serving more the US market.
So there was also there also this aspect of of having this serving the local needs,
I would say, from the company.
Then it's different also in what the activity was a little bit different because
we do not we do not develop electronic devices in Nestle, whereas Valtronic was
really on electronic devices.
And yes, so I would say that there is also maybe the size of the company really
makes a big difference in the sense that.
Well, there are two things.
First, there might be some more constraints in Valtronic because it's medical.
So aside from the medical part of Nestle, but and still Nestle is a food company.
So there is a lot of constraints for around food safety, for instance, obviously.
But on the other hand, Nestle being a really big company needs to have all of
these processes that are inherent to every big company, I would say.
And Valtronic was maybe a little bit more on.
We can do different things.
But yeah, it's.
Still to a certain extent, so then I would say.
It would be more directly closer to a startup, even though while I'm saying
this, I'm also thinking that some part of Nestle are also shaped to be
like I would say startup like or have this freedom.
So there is still even though there is it's a big company result of the process
and everything, which is giving also a certain security and coherence.
Then there is also this innovation and entrepreneurship that is visible
into some areas of the company.
Yeah, there is an anonymous question asking what is the difference between
your role as head of technology and now a data scientist?
I'm doing more hands on things as a data scientist.
That was one of the goal.
You know, when you are head of technology, it's the activity was a lot
around supervising people, not supervising in terms of people management,
but more in terms of technical outcome that they were producing.
And there was also a lot of activity around interaction with the customers
or with the prospects.
So I would then work with the salespeople.
And then, you know, when they would come to me, I have this new guy
who would like to do this and this.
Do you think it's feasible?
I don't know if you're familiar with the YouTube video where it says
I'm an expert.
I can do everything.
You know, we see seven perpendicular lines with blue ink that are red
for those who are wearing a belt.
And then you will see these are the types of times of, you know,
the head of technology, the experts coming in and then firsthand say
whether it's possible or not.
And in that regard, I'm not doing this anymore at all as a data scientist
in this way because I'm involved in the project, I would say,
really much more hands on.
And I might then that there is no interaction with, I would say,
customer who would have a specific project.
It would be more internal customers and internal project that are being
shaped and developed.
So, yeah, so there is this hands on thing and I could be much more focused
on data science activity itself and develop also in that field that is
also taking off a lot with now more recently also on larger data sets
as well.
Thank you.
There was a question posted by, I think, Niels.
Sorry if I mispronounced that.
But Niels, I'll give you a second if you want to ask that yourself.
Otherwise, I can ask it.
Yeah, sure.
Can you hear me?
Loud and clear.
Thanks.
Awesome.
Yeah, so my question was around, I think you mentioned something about
collecting some data files from the lab using Shiny.
So I was just wondering if you could talk about the process around
identifying Shiny as the correct tool to do this and then whether you
had any interaction with the stakeholder to get approval for using it
and then as an add on to that, what development challenges did you meet,
if any, when using Shiny in enterprise?
Thanks.
Yeah.
Okay.
So basically, why using Shiny?
It's because we're using R to start with.
So basically, the data analysis that I've been doing, we have an internal
package that is called Nestat that I participated to in developing some
code around design of experiment analysis.
And so just to say that we have a rather intense activity using R as the
software for doing our analysis, especially when it comes to, you know,
sometimes from the lab, you can have some more and more automatic or
semi-automatic equipment that would generate a lot of data like
photo samplers, like robotic systems and things like this.
And when it comes to that, you have a lot of different files or a lot of
files, which are not so different.
They are the same structure, but it's a lot of them.
And, you know, copy pasting it in Excel and trying to do something out of
that is kind of painful.
And so very quickly when I come to this situation, I would then start
coding in R to do the loading, automatic data running, put things together,
have a nice graph with nice colors using ggplot and so on.
So I'm a tidyverse fan, by the way.
And then with this, you have your code.
And then you get your colleague from the lab or from the project management
saying, Hey, that's very nice.
But now I have new files and I would like to do it again.
And the same analysis and the same display and then over and over and over.
So after some time you say, Hey, look, I can just package that into a nice
web interface.
And then you can do it all on your own.
And then if there is anything going wrong, then you can just let me know.
And I will also then update it.
Other things that could happen, typically to give you an example of why
we've been doing this is, so while you sort of secret that a coffee machine
is pushing water through a system and then with water you have also some
pressure.
And then so you have some curves of pressure against time or temperature
against time, this kind of thing.
And then we are interested in what is the maximum here, what is the plateau
here, what is the local minimum, what is the local thing and what is the
variability.
So all these features extracted that are then directed into that.
And then they would run their own analysis on the features.
But you need to extract these features.
And a typical shiny app would be something where they could upload the
raw data and then get back a CSV file where they have the features
analyzed and extracted.
So now how did we manage to have this in the company?
So I would say a key thing is to have a good relationship with IT because
they are the guardians of the compliance for IT and it's really important
and for very good reasons, especially in a company as exposed as big
companies, I would say any big company.
And while it went, so the first thing that's, I mean at some point I had
also, you can also have shiny apps that you just like locally deploy in
the computer and then you can also have your colleague having R installed
and then you can just, we started by this sometimes, by the way, to have
kind of a batch file to just start the process and then double click on it
and then it would open automatically R and shiny behind and then they would
have the page.
But then it's sitting on their computer and if we want to update anything
then we need to go to their computer again.
So there were some discussion also already from the center where people
were saying, you know, that would be interesting and then, you know,
connecting with IT, you manage to put it into the sufficiently secret and
closed environment but still available in the intranet.
And then more recently we moved with Azure and then it goes into Azure
with Azure solutions.
And then that's also where you can manage the access, you can manage the
visibility of the virtual machine.
So now we choose the server, it's about the virtual machine.
And, yeah, so the thing is to have our IT counterparts that are aligned
with this.
So basically what I was looking at, so I could describe the needs that we
had as programmers and data scientists and then they would, they came back
with some proposal and then we moved together to have something that's up
and running.
So I don't know if I covered the whole question because you asked me also,
yeah, how do we, is there any hurdles in the big company?
Yeah, we said it's just having the right people but it's also a matter of
good compromise, I would say, because of course you are not in the world
of open source and or you would not, typically our code is versioned into
a Git system but inside, in-house, we would not put our code on GitHub
because it's a private company.
So you need to have this understanding and then also explaining what are
the needs that we have.
Typically in R&D we have some needs that are inherent to research and
development.
We cannot predict what we will discover because it's research and
And sometimes this is a bit difficult to handle when you speak with people
who are used to deploying an app and the app is doing what it's supposed
to be doing and we know everything and there is no doubt and that goes
with it.
So there was also these discussions around that to really understand
each other's needs and perspective because you cannot either go freely
and say, I'm R&D, I'm creative, I want to do everything and you need to
play by the rules for the good reason and understand them.
Regarding your comment about good relationships with IT and Travis, I
see you made a comment.
We do hear that a lot.
I like to ask what are some concrete steps or things that you can do to
actually build a good relationship with IT because sometimes it can be a
statement akin to deliver a great customer experience.
What does that actually mean and look like?
I would say, yeah, the good relationship with IT is I would say like any
human relationship, it's understanding also the other's perspective.
It's really, you know, most of the time, really in the very vast majority
when someone is bothering us with some constraints, it's not by pleasure or
just to make our life worse.
It's because they need to deliver on something and they are also
accountable for something and then we need to make sure that we also speak
the same language but at least we have a common ground of understanding.
I would say that would be one of the key things.
I remember, for instance, yeah, there might be things that you are not
aware of typically on some of the data access or some of the systems access.
You say, you know, I would like to have it open in the words of sharing,
sharing knowledge, sharing science, sharing everything.
And then they say, yeah, but you see, this and this can happen and actually
it did already happen and you didn't know that.
So listen to the stories also that they have to tell us where it comes from,
all these frame that was put in place.
And afterwards, it's even better because once it's well set, then you can
really work in a confident manner in a safe environment.
So, yeah, I would say understand and listen to the other, but also be able
to explain your perspective and your needs in a most objective way,
I would say.
Bottom line is to say, yeah, I need to, this is how I see them.
And I see someone is commenting one good relationship with IT.
Do not lose patience.
Yes, absolutely.
Losing patience is also a good thing.
But yes, I'm not saying I'm succeeding every time.
Sometimes I'm, you know, passionate, I would say.
But yes, it's try to understand also their perspective.
I want to go to the anonymous questions.
There's a few of them.
One is, do you miss supervising people?
Do you still supervise people?
I find that it seems like an inevitable path to progress, but I don't know
if I'd be any good.
That's a good question because that's exactly one of the reasons I moved
also to Nestle.
So I think it's inevitable to do some sort of supervision.
Now, the great thing is I have the chance to have in Nestle that we have a
path where we can develop expertise.
And that's what I've chosen.
I'm not developing into managing more and more people, having a group and a
department and an institute or whatever.
I'm more developing the expertise in data science.
But still, with a certain level of seniority, people come to you and ask
you for help, ask you for feedback, ask you for having some, you know,
can you have a look at what I've done and then tell me?
And then also people ask you, well, from your perspective, what strategic
decision would you recommend?
At some point, you take this also span when you grow in the career.
So that's why I say it's inevitable to do some sort of management.
So I would say I don't have direct people as of now, but I have, you know,
indirect or dotted line type of relationship also.
I may supervise sometimes some students or in case like this.
But it's more, yeah, something I would say like coaching and
counselor type of activity.
Still with the responsibility that goes with it because I've got the
experience sometimes that I've got some feedback where, yeah, senior leader
would ask some project manager who is presenting the project.
So these are the conclusions.
And then, oh, did you check it with Jean-Vincent?
And then if they say yes, then you say, oh, OK.
That's right.
So you're kind of the validation of the expertise.
And it goes with the responsibility because if it fails behind, then
that's somehow also your credibility that is at stake.
But I would say that, yeah, that's really something that is occurring,
I would say, in any career.
There was an anonymous question.
I think it referred to a previous conversation.
It's what is a head of technology?
I guess the implied question is like, well, what does that entail?
Well, that is exactly in this line of not having a typical direct report.
At the time, I was transversal into the different groups.
And so I would be the go-to person if there was a technological question
in the company.
And then also trying to coordinate across the different groups
of different activities.
So that would mean reviewing what the different engineers are doing,
giving them also some feedback on the results,
saying maybe also some guidance on how they would do the next experiment
or how they would address the next process challenge.
And then, yeah, also being the counselor for a relationship with outside.
So when someone is coming and saying, okay, I would like to do this new
implant with that technology.
Do you think you can bring me a solution with this?
And then with having an overview of all the project technology speaking
in the company that you can have a good insight and saying, well,
we think we can do that in that way, in that way,
or with this and this challenges or in that time frame and so on.
So that would be also the type of activity.
There was a question, and sorry if I'm pronouncing your name wrong,
from Pankaj.
I don't know if you want to join in.
I see you're on video if you want to join in.
But I'm happy to ask it as well.
Hi.
Yeah, John, thanks for the insightful things that you have been telling.
It's really helpful.
One question was more around Shiny application that you're using.
What kind of database or data store or data warehouse would you typically
suggest as a backend for Shiny application?
And majorly when there is a huge scale,
we are talking about like 100, 200 GB data in the backend.
Well, that's a question maybe for some of the positive.
So that would give you a more complete answer.
To be really transparent, I'm not dealing with that big databases.
But from what I know that we have been using there,
I would say our chosen solution is around Azure.
So I would say a cloud-based solution is something that would be the
preferred solution because you will not download 200 GB on your laptop.
That won't work.
And you need to scale up your computing power,
which is I think something that is really a big advantage of cloud
solutions in general.
They get this flexibility of computing power.
And then, yeah,
I'm not sure how much for Shiny apps you can handle that size of databases.
But definitely what you can do also is have some backend preprocessing
because depending on what you want to display, I mean, in the end,
you may not want to display the hundreds of millions of points.
You want to display some summary data, some knowledge extracted from it.
So I would then, from what I know, I mean,
I would maybe use things like Databricks or Data Factory in Azure.
I don't know about Amazon and Google Cloud.
So that's why I'm speaking about this one.
So I'm not saying anything.
It's just that I'm saying what I've experienced.
And then you can prepare your data and then your Shiny app can then get the
relevant data that is then useful for displaying.
So, and it depends also on the application, because why I'm saying this,
maybe you want to recalculate some things based on the full dataset,
depending on what is the user input.
But I would really try to take care of having as much as possible
preprocessing data with things that where you can call very powerful
clusters.
I don't know if you imagine a situation where you have some data and then
maybe once a day or once every 24 hours or twice a day, you would have,
you would turn on the very powerful cluster that is a lot expensive,
prepare your data, save it somewhere in a data lake or in a structured
database.
Shiny works well with, I've done some Shiny application with Azure
data lakes.
So it's really like a file system,
but you can also work with SQL database very well that are in the cloud.
There is also some,
you can work with Cosmos DB that are a bit more flexible,
but then I would imagine something like where you have your big storage,
then your Databricks would, in R and Python, you can do both.
You can then query and then get your data, analyze,
save it in a way that is prepared for the Shiny app.
So that the Shiny app is a lot more reactive when it has really the
minimal data it needs to be efficient and to serve the needs.
So it really depends on what you need,
because if you want to program or to get to recompute everything,
every time you have a query or reactive action that is done on your app,
then it's been very likely crashed quite quickly.
So I would, yeah, prepare this in that way.
Understood. Thanks. Thanks a lot, John.
Aman, I see your hand is raised.
Yeah. I had a quick question.
So a little bit about my background is beforehand,
I used to have no coding experience whatsoever.
I had to learn as a means to an end.
And so I've just had a DataCamp subscription and was frantically
searching on Stack Overflow before my deadlines.
And the experience that I had was a little bit stressful.
And to be quite frank, I was a little intimidated,
sort of stepping into this newer space and more technical space.
And so, Jean-Baptiste,
I'd love to get your perspective on if you've had any experience with
coaching and helping other people lower the barrier to entry in terms
of learning how to code,
learning how to apply coding principles so their data science work,
because the initial barrier can be a little daunting,
a little scary at first, at least in my experience.
So I'd just love to hear your experience about playing that mentor role.
And if you have any tips and tricks for us.
Yeah, sure. So first I would say the key thing is that the person
starting should be, well, I think if you are interested into coding,
then that's a very good first step.
There is the first barrier is people,
some people are scared by the code and some are not.
So if you are scared, I would recommend you do something else.
But if you are not, then it's a good thing.
And then I would say, yeah, maybe two or three tricks,
but maybe they're kind of obvious.
You can have some example code.
Typically you never, you rarely start from nowhere.
So you always have more or less good quality.
I mean, well, so I started also coding in my life.
I didn't, I was not born coding.
So sometimes some of the other people would give me some,
some part of code that was okay.
And then I could start reading it and understanding it and then adapting it.
So you can have a first thing is that this is your example code and then,
and then adapt it.
So maybe having a colleague that can give you also some things.
And then something that is, that is really, I would say,
helping is to do not hesitate to have regular sessions like weekly,
where you just review the code.
And even if you have a question, then you can go, yes.
Stack Overflow or yeah.
I'm not sure that that chat GPT is doing a very good job.
I've had some hallucinations.
So double check with the internet as well.
Then he can help. And then you can, you can, but I mean,
I've stuck overflowed a lot of course.
And then, then it's good to have, it's good to have also this session.
Let's take an hour or two hours sometime in the week.
We sit together, explain me your code.
That's where the other different intentions come into the code.
I would say also don't hesitate to put comments even for yourself.
This is what I'm doing here. This is what I'm doing here.
And this is, you know, just a few, a few notes.
And then with someone more experienced can then.
Propose some, some.
Alternative way of doing the analysis or alternative way of.
Or more efficient way.
And.
Yeah.
So in terms of coaching is.
There is this.
Because yeah, sometimes it happened to me that, you know,
I get, I get.
To review a code with someone and then.
You say, yeah, but you can do it a lot more efficient this way.
So it's not only a matter of being, you know, competition efficient.
Sometimes he has, because he takes several minutes or hours to compute.
So you, you better have something more efficient that is really
dramatically.
Reducing.
But sometimes also, it helps also the code to be clearer.
And then if you have a elegant coding, then.
In the end, you also have a better understanding of what is happening.
And, and you, you keep track and you, you avoid hidden mistakes because.
In the code, you can have cases where.
The code doesn't work and it gives you an error.
That's kind of easy.
You will have a capital letter somewhere that he was not there.
You don't have the right package. Okay. That's kind of quickly fixed.
But I would say the most prominent.
Error is when he does everything.
And then need out something that is not supposed to output.
And if you cannot spot that, that's, that's pretty complicated.
So what that's when you have a clear code and an elegant code, you can,
you can more easily follow. I would say what is going on.
And typically.
Yeah, that's where things like.
When we have been.
Again, on the pipe and these kinds of things, and you can have something
that is a lot.
Easier to follow.
And, and sometimes what can be good also is to set some challenges.
And I set myself at some point. I said.
Now from now on my code in our, we have zero for loop.
I did everything without follow. First is more efficient.
And sometimes it helps you. So think a bit differently.
But with apply.
Typically with everything around.
Applying maps.
Matt to the.
Matt, whatever you have.
Then you can do a lot of things and.
And then you have this.
This.
Also.
Wait to, to, to have.
Trust something that is working.
And I would say.
It also helps developing the functions aspect.
So it's also good to say, okay, I can have a function doing this.
I can have a function.
Taking my data from this to this.
And then I have the next thing to take into this.
And I can apply it.
I said, Jeff is not.
Do not agree with me.
It's not more efficient.
Yeah. Okay.
There is this parallelization that you can use.
I had some examples.
That actually was.
Was.
Yeah.
There is one thing that is a lot.
A lot efficient.
Is however, don't forget that R is using.
I mean.
Use metrics calculation.
So typically the worst thing to do is to scan through a data frame.
Because I'm always seeing that you can use the object.
Thank you, Travis. I see you asked a question and I'm very curious.
Where are you dialing in from?
San Diego back back home. I guess these days.
I don't I admittedly don't know a lot about food science.
But I'm so I'm in the pharma side and the.
Notion of whether or not you have to submit data products or.
Kind of reports to the FDA or other regulatory agencies.
Do you have to do so?
Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of conversation in the pharma biotech world about.
How to do these things with our.
It's often met with some resistance just because they're more used to seeing.
I wonder if that's the thing you've had to come across.
Oh, I haven't personally come across this.
I know some people.
Is also a software we use.
I'm not personally using it, but it has been used.
I'm not in that part of the.
I'm not in that part of the world.
Unfortunately, I cannot give you.
Any details on this.
But they are.
There are clearly a lot of activities around, around that anyway.
Because we have to safety specialist.
And we have even an issue.
That is dedicated to food safety.
So, so this is really something.
And.
Probably they've been doing some mission or so to FDA.
But beyond this, I'm, I'm afraid I don't have any, any experience in that.
In that regard.
Yeah, no worries. Thanks. No, it'd be interesting.
You know, as a follow up sometime.
The conversation, I think, is often dominated by the pharma and biotech world.
But I imagine you all struggle through the same sorts of things.
Food science and health science. I'd be interested if we all chat together, you know.
Okay. Sure.
Okay.
So, I'm going to run through a few anonymous questions.
How much freedom do you have regarding the tools that you use?
As much as I can justify the need.
I would say.
It's true. We cannot use anything. We won't.
We need to use approved tools.
I have a lot of them. So I have a lot of tools and I have.
I would say more than if enough.
Tools to use.
Sometimes I come across things that I would like to implement.
And then, yeah, the process is.
We can come with a proposal, but then we first need to come with.
And then.
These two answers my needs because of this and this and this.
IT would come back and tell you, well, maybe you can use this.
Which we already have in house that I wasn't.
And sometimes it happened.
I was not aware of something.
And then I have a new tool. I can.
I can use.
That is actually answering the needs.
Okay.
And then we can move on with it.
And I double click and ask what, what is the.
If you can share the process for.
A new tool, right? So you discover something. It's amazing. You.
You want to use it.
How do you go about bringing that into the workplace or what advice
might you give.
Yeah.
Coming back to IT security. I would really.
Come to.
First talk to.
To IT.
Representative to say.
I wouldn't come saying I have this new tool. That is great.
Please diet.
Because that don't work.
I would say, Hey, you know, I've come across this challenge in my.
In my work.
Do you know anything about that?
I would say.
I have that by the way.
And then in the conversation, you can maybe suggest it.
And see whether they know about it or not. So, because it's a lot more,
you know, okay.
And you can say, I may have a potential solution,
but this is really what I need to have.
As first to be, to be.
To be answered in terms of need.
And then you can.
Yeah.
I think what's.
How do you navigate the.
The line or sort of adopting open source tools, right?
A lot of the times.
They're free.
So you can just sort of.
Download them. Maybe there's not a purchase.
Necessary. How do you go about, or how do you navigate?
Not over-involving.
IT, but keeping them in the loop.
Well, first, some of these free tools.
I think, you know,
It is kind of also.
He's doing the job in terms of scouting and being.
Aware of what is going on typically with.
We have the example.
And you know what happened with, with Samsung.
So very early, we had.
Also some communication internally saying.
We know there is this coming out. Please be careful about this.
I think it's okay.
If it's not, if it's an open source and free tool.
That doesn't require admin rights to install on your machine.
You can do it, but then you're responsible for it.
I think this freedom also always comes with responsibility.
So.
I think it's okay. And if you, if you address it this way.
If you have a person who is IT.
Who is also responsible for the, for the overall security of the.
Of the company.
Then.
Then it goes in the right direction because you say.
Look, I would like to use that.
It's always good to have the double check and maybe.
Ask the question.
You can test it on your own personal computer at home.
Say I have done some tests at home and it was good because of this.
So, so, so.
So, so.
Into this.
And if you have this reflection, so.
You may not need to for each and every step go to them.
But.
If you have behind also the reflection also.
Okay.
What would be.
You know, kind of doing a sort of.
Risk assessment.
Also regarding the company and taking into consideration the
So, so, so.
So sometimes you get used to it and say, okay, maybe these.
I'm pretty confident.
I can do some tests.
And I've.
Some reflection.
And then you can just double check.
And some of the things you would ask.
Because, you know, it might not be.
So straightforward.
Yeah, just make sure that.
That you have also this kind of, you know, rational and reflection.
There is a, I want to make sure we get to all of the anonymous questions.
So we're coming to the top of the hour. So if you have any burning questions.
Submit them on Slido or put them in the chat.
But one that we didn't get to so far is.
What are your aspirations for the future in your role?
In your role.
Or longer term.
Well, that's.
It's an HR question.
No, it's really, I think I'm really interested into.
You know,
In the field of.
Well, basically.
Trying to get knowledge, you know, extract.
Knowledge and understanding of the phenomenon.
From, from the.
From the data and we have.
More and more data. So we say.
Really going in.
And being also.
Aware of what is, what is.
What is.
Is emerging. I mean, recently we have.
You know, we have.
Having some, some statistics and then.
Doing some linear regression.
And now we have transformer architecture that can be applied.
Beyond text.
In some cases.
You know, getting more of these things.
And trying to connect the dots between the different things that.
That are available or that emerge also from, from the academic research.
Yeah.
Then.
By doing this.
It's.
In terms of personal.
You know,
Development.
Typically in the expert.
Expert.
Expertise aspect.
You can.
Then start to also give lectures.
In some universities or in some schools.
And then to see.
To also share.
Your knowledge here and get the feedback.
Also from, from, from different.
You know, from different people.
So, so.
I would say that would be a natural evolution.
You know, it's also to, to go to reach beyond the company.
For, for this.
And which is by the way, aligned with.
The company.
So.
Company.
Very good. So I think that.
Wraps up the anonymous questions and I.
I don't see any outstanding ones in the chat.
Obviously feel free to raise your hands. Everyone.
So.
Not to put you on the spot, but I guess to put you on the spot.
What advice do you have?
For.
Data scientists or aspiring.
Data science leaders.
Leaders.
In particular.
Yeah.
You have many different.
Angles here, but if I had to pick one.
I would say.
It's evolving.
Very, very, very fast.
I would say.
Being curious on new things and always trying to.
With moderation.
Of course, because you need also to deliver and to be,
to be efficient.
So I would say.
Yeah.
Being curious.
What is coming up and the new discoveries and then.
Don't hesitate to test these new things on.
And also.
Keep the right balance between.
Having new things and still selecting the time for the people that
you are maybe leading.
To learn about them.
And to still delivering what they have to do in the everyday life.
Because, you know, sometimes.
You have to.
You have to do these new things that you want to try,
but still the projects I'm moving on and.
So I would say.
You know,
keep the balance between what you are doing and what you want to do
as well.
So there is a good balance to find between.
Between the how to deliver.
What you know already.
Let's see how you miss curiosity and openness to try new things.
That may also open.
New opportunities.
Are there any particular avenues or channels that you use?
Occupied a.
Stay up to date and learn new trends.
I would say.
You know,
I'm not coming.
From, you know,
What.
I'm not registered to a specific journal.
I would say it's more, you know,
Like this.
Sometimes also.
There is no one channel.
I would say.
It's really a therapy.
As well as the question.
I realized this because, you know,
sometimes I get something on LinkedIn.
I would say.
You know,
Some other time we have a specific challenge to solve in a project.
And then.
There is a company or.
That we can work with.
Then that would be the spread. I would pull to, you know, to, to better,
to better understand it. So I would say.
It's really more opportunistic and systematic way.
I would say.
Maybe that.
Maybe I could change this.
That could be a good.
Very good. Well, we are at the top of the hour. So.
Thank you so much for your participation.
And leadership today. If folks want to.
Ask you more questions or get in contact with you.
What's the best way to.
To connect with you.
What I would say.
LinkedIn.
But don't.
I mean, just.
Be careful to.
I would say.
Don't hesitate to join the positive talk.
Hangouts.
Because, you know, I tend to.
To not accept.
Contacts.
If I don't know the person.
I haven't met, you know, it's kind of a rule.
I've said for myself, because, you know, otherwise you get overwhelmed.
So.
Don't hesitate to connect, but leave.
Leave a word.
And then.
Then we can most probably.
We'll come back to you saying.
Let's have a chat.
So.
It's a good rule.
That's right. But include a note.
Very good.
It was nice seeing everyone.
Next week.
It'll be regularly scheduled program with.
With Rachel, but.
Thank you so much.
I hope everyone has a great rest of the day and week.
Thanks so much.
Thank you everyone for advancing your questions.
See you all.
Bye.